everybody welcome xnor the lion please
fighting once again for the plus let's
do boss rush as someone we've never done
no okay that will not be done let's do
the dark room path as a character we've
never okay we've never done it so I mean
like okay okay we could do a little
samson dark room path we need the
negative on basically everybody but we
have done show on some people you know
what
Lazarus let's do some Lazarus light side
path apparently we have not done this
it's a good opportunity to beetle as
again here's your seat today KY 1 G TCA
8 the real metagame of a new save file
and Isaac is trying to remember all the
great damage they're trying to remember
all the checkboxes you need to tick in
order to ensure that you can actually
complete the posted notes as is required
we don't really care about a lovers card
to be honest with you at least not yet
because we probably do want to invoke
the Lazarus principle here on our on our
starting floor at least that's my
perspective I got to be honest I've been
I've been slumping a little bit in Isaac
and I don't mean to even mean like slump
slump the jams slump it up while your
feet are stumping I mean like I've been
I've been playing like pretty much trash
lately I don't know if my brain is fully
switched over into like divinity
original sin 2 modes so whenever I see
top down even though the divinities
technically isometric which is a 3/4
camera or 2/3 camera in some situations
we're uh for whatever reason we're on
the wrong track back up back up cuz it's
on na te and me the war into the G
hopefully are I'm not Warren G and you
know what I don't want to be Warren G
not that I'm disrespecting his life but
I'm happy enough of my own life and you
know Warren G had his time in the
nineteen nineties and I'm I'm sure he's
still doing ok to this day but I don't
want to like swap in new a hip-hop
artist past the prime of their career I
think if you were like NL you want to
trade spots with ice cubes circa you
know nine
in 89 I'd be like you know what can I
try it out for a week before I see for
myself like I'm pretty happy in my own
life and not you know there's a lot
about it that I would miss but I can't
deny that that would be cool but hey you
want to be ice cube now I'd be like I
had or no I'm trading like probably 20
years of my life for the opportunity to
star in 29 Jump Street maybe maybe not
right I knew there was gonna be a room
the secret here it's a decent amount of
capital nothing there then our second
secret room must be down here and that
is indeed correct and okay we got some
really really good stuff but I really
want some bombs careful what you wish
for buddy okay so we are a genius and we
got blood bag come on give me a little
money here you decide give me some keys
I mean um I just now want to go to the
shop because there's a couple of
opportunities for us to get something
valuable out of bombs one is the tinted
rock and and one is the other stone
chests in there so there is a bomb for
sale and the items in here are kind of
trash so my thinking is there's a really
obvious way to mess this up and that's
to pick up blood bag right away but I
think we should instead end our own
lives probably there we go we got
something out of it I'm gonna take dim
bulb from this point onwards but then
pick up blood bag after that and
whenever we get from our boss here and
then we're in a really really nice spot
it would be nice to blow that up as well
we could probably make it happen by
giving our reroll machine in our shop a
couple of cents and then it'll re-roll
we could buy a bomb for five cents
probably ruin our chance of getting in
our cave but get a spirit heart in all
likelihood that's figuring art will give
us a great chance of getting a deal with
the devil and all of a sudden we're like
extremely off to the races as as Lazarus
here this is an incredibly good start
basically getting a free blood bag and
also in the process justifying the
existence of x-ray goggles an item that
I probably underrate if I'm being honest
with you I always take like the you know
would you trade lives with blood
it's kind of a it's a young man's
question or a young lady's question for
that matter because once you you end up
you know you you have like a family for
example they're like would you trade
your life for ice cubes life you're like
well you're asking me to trade in my you
know this is a hypothetically I'm not
speaking as myself guess we just rated
like my wife my son and then get
somebody else's wife and son it's just
the little it's a strange question
wouldn't use I mean like it's kind of an
inherently selfish ask I found he'll so
I was hoping that'd be a little better
like would you trade your family for
somebody else's family but you also get
to be rich and not maybe a little bit
famous as well like it's it's a little
bit of a selfish ask the if your
significant other or spouse asks you
that question well if you trust each
other and it's a safe space give your
honest answer but otherwise there is a
correct answer and the answer is no baby
of course not we're going down the next
floor here we have really stat and our
selves up relative to the norm here for
a Lazarus run particularly with respect
to our speed which is a secondary stat
most of the DAW a secondary stat most of
the time damage is a little bit better
because we've resurrected ourselves as
Lazarus and I I chose to let's be honest
the reason I chose and some people may
disagree with this the reason I chose to
go flat penny over just be careful on
this room this room is ruined many a
deal with the devil chance in its day
the reason I chose illuminated bulb over
flat penny is because we already have
six keys and that's like potentially
almost as much as we'll need for the
rest of the game it's a little bit of an
exaggeration potentially but not by much
to be honest with you no no we're good I
kind of just want to wait for the portal
to tap out this is a Oh that'll also
work it's a bad room there so dim but
are illuminated bulb which I sometimes
call dim bulb just for kicks is not good
at all for us right now but could
actually be good one day and this room
has a spirit heart it's the more boring
decision to do this but I'm gonna buy
the spirit heart and the reason for that
is because I really really want to get a
deal with the devil and that is like 12
out of 10 will get a small speed
downgrade but that's basically
irrelevant instead we're gonna be very
stoked to have the extra damage we're up
to six point two three damage and it's
actually more than six point to three
damage because of the fact that we have
chemical peels so I believe half of our
shots are gonna be doing either nine
point three damage or possibly twelve
point four damage you know plus 50% and
plus one hundred percent respectively on
those values I don't know if that's if
that's accurate but that's that's been
my back at the napkins sort of approach
we got pentagram for even more damage
and then I'm pretty happy to have super
bandage for some extra HP I'm gonna take
a little bit of a risk here and use two
of clubs it's not gonna be remarkably
productive it's allowed us to
potentially pick up us beer at heart
there thank you HP's looking good and
really this is a run that I don't know
if it's conceivable to mess this one up
it's almost like the perfect run sure
it's no like brimstone mom's knife or
anything like that but we have seven
damage leaving the second floor really
good defensive choices as well
stats are nothing to be concerned about
at the present moment we're just like
really really well equipped to tackle
this run so quickly check this and in
fact we're in such a good situation I
will even well there's no reason to risk
a spear at alright let's just place this
down this is one way to break a slump
I'll tell you that much these are better
stats than we have at the end of the
game sometimes we also have deal with
the devil precedents go along with it
and to be honest with you a pretty nice
trinket here that that is not providing
us any value yet but could fairly easily
one day
I really want more options we're way
behind schedule for boss rush but it's
so irrelevant that I'm gonna like use
bombs even though I probably should
avoid doing so come on come on you
wouldn't just give me one penny dang
okay well more options we will abandon
there were still some pots left over but
shouldn't cheese it too much I mean the
game has been extremely kind to us now
it would be nice to make a little bit of
a play for going a little faster because
although boss rush is is not very
relevant to our interest right now it's
always nice to get another item maybe no
we have done hush already we haven't
done mega Satan I don't know it wasn't
really in the cards for us usually if
you want to do mega satan you're gonna
avoid that first deal with the devil
which obviously like we did not in case
that's not abundantly clear it's okay i
think let's try out a little magic
musketeer i think five mushrooms is like
a very reasonable opportunity for you to
try to pick up magic mush in my opinion
now this is how you know that my brain
is broken like those are some dawn good
items dude blank card and diplopia we
have such good stats better stats than
you would ever expect to have oh my god
go ahead to better stats and you would
ever expect to have by this point in a
run not even sweating that and I'm still
like you know what would be sick is if
we just used our cube of meat to kill
everything so for 15 cents we could get
all of this and that actually might be
the approach I take instead of its
stealing a deal with the devil item but
I do kind of like the idea of stealing
for boss rush items even though blank
card is really good so I'm gonna try to
do this even though yeah this is the
Pope is one of those items that has
always had a little bit
of a contentious sort of use case I
think now my god more options would have
been real sweet they're like no matter
how you use diplopia it's always
divisive you know it's not like using
the d6 or people are looking at items
garbage you made a good decision instead
it's like you could have had slightly
more of a slightly less of an
opportunity cost on diplopia he used it
here and I like that might seem like I'm
being negative i respect that line of
reasoning quite quite a lot to be honest
with you but part of what makes isaac
such an engaging game is that not only
is the game like the gameplay in Isaac
the actual moment the moment dodging and
you know other others such riffraff is
like a seven the meta game though is
like a 19 so on average that makes it a
13 out of 10 so it's really that kind of
like evaluation of the value
propositions in my opinion that makes
the game enduring like the first couple
of times you play it's kind of fun as a
little Legend of Zelda yeah I get it why
does he have 2300 hours in this and then
add your like a hundred videos later
you're like how do you take X drink it
over wide trinket you know it's like it
inspires tribalism in a way that I think
is astonishing okay stop just walking in
it means that is actually just stupid
every room is just full of 80 mushrooms
though so maybe it's not stupid maybe
it's actually genius now that I think
about it uh I really like I don't know
how many probably like 30 videos I've
gone on this exact same tangent but I
really think that rebirth specifically
is is one of the most best ones one of
the most well design games of all time
in terms of like structuring it in such
a way that it encourages repeat play
without being super repetitive it's it's
like a landmark video game for that
there's no other roguelite has really
come close in my opinion sure there's a
few other rogue lights I got you know a
hundred hours in two hundred hours
and that's a lot that's a lot of
playtime for many people watching this
that would probably qualify for like the
most they've ever played a game ever for
anyone that's ever played a MOBA they're
going you're like a little baby you're
your limited amount of play time makes
me laugh you're like a small child sorry
it's a little frame II on the preview as
well I don't know what's going on there
maybe it's fine I don't know it is weird
like sometimes the preview looks frame
II and then the video is fine sometimes
the game looks frame II and the preview
looks smooth as butter
it's like myriad pseudo technical issues
here but I think it's relatively smooth
but but nothing's come close to Isaac's
like as far as I'm concerned this game
is like potentially eternal I could play
a once-a-day forever and have a good
time sometimes either you're enjoying it
more than others oh I won't deny that
acquiescence but it's a testament to the
design
Gunjan was close and you know the
updates could could change it but just a
little too long whenever a roguelite is
like the average run is an hour comes a
little tougher for me but your mileage
may vary sister Maggie so we're really
feeling the burn for not taking more
options earlier
this dude has not paid out with spiders
I think which is awesome we're almost on
pacer boss rush my dream case for boss
rush is we get one of those rare like
eight item boss rushes getting four
items for free is great getting eight
items for free is like having another
hole like one runs worth of item room
stacked on top of your existing run now
if all eight of them are active items
might be a little cheesed but so of
course we can seem to get deals with the
devil because of Goathead is you're
wondering where that's coming from
Noah's goblin is like potentially worth
losing illuminated bulb if we're gonna
take both of these and I oh we could use
diplopia to get them for free but I
don't think it's that valuable I could
consider taking knows goblin and
actually no I think we're better off at
the bulb the bulb is really good so his
nose Goblin but we're better off with
the with the bulb because the idea is
that eventually you know we're gonna
lose diplopia and the odds are like if I
had to put smart money on it if we get a
boss rush with four items which by the
way sometimes you get one with two items
so there is a possibility you get one
with with less than four items but if
you get four items or more one of them
is probably gonna be active so when you
diplopia you're gonna be able to grab
something to replace this with it and
even if it's a garbage spacebar item
garbage space bar items are made into
pretty good passives just by virtue of
having the illuminated bulb and if it's
useful then the even better but diplopia
is actually a great case for us because
it counts as being fully charged I think
despite the fact that we're not using it
for anything at all right now I am an
idiot moron man the sooner you realize
this about yourself because it's not
just me I'm talking about the human
condition the better off you're gonna be
my meat brain is so much you know like
so far behind where it should be
and I can't wait for the robots to iron
out the inefficient process he's first
step robots
stop making me crave Doritos it's it's a
vestigial trait to want that much you
know salt fat and powdered cheese in my
body we don't need it anymore
get rid of my Dorito cravings or or
alternatively robots make the Doritos
like zero calories secondarily make it
so I'm not tempted to use Cuba meat
anymore you might say onl why don't you
take some personal responsibility and
build you know better habits and this
applies to the Doritos thing you know as
well as the queue of meat and I say
that's for the birds
that's for less evolved species than
human beings I'm not gonna take any
personal responsibility if I could just
you know gene mod all of my inefficient
and undesirable traits out of myself
okay I don't need to go through build
good habits nah son unnecessary on the
shoulders of giants we will let these
big pharma companies develop a way to
create the perfect human being and then
I'll just opt in we do not actually you
know what we do want a was cuz the
teleport out of boss Rush is preferable
I suppose but I'm not joking out look I
am of course obviously joking is our
differences and perhaps even our flaws
as humans that make us unique and
beautiful however I would like to lose
whatever evolutionary trait is going you
know what would be fun crashing into
enemies with Cuba meat despite having
like 8.4 damage and a good rate of fire
we can we can dump that get that out of
here we also have to make boss rush
which actually is pretty easy I think
once no secret room there once you
realize that we have the compass
shouldn't be too hard even though we're
gonna be maybe a minute behind schedule
which is significant as you approach the
end of the game
so you realize that we're rocking that
compass we should be pretty much good to
go get some bombs in there because
cluster bombs can help take this guy out
I still maintain this is like the
hardest debts boss in the game almost
impossibly the amount of real estate you
have to dodge these shots is like zero
but this is a fun difficult boss it's
not like when you fight oh I mean you
got it I'm not gonna take that just
because I don't expect to die we also
just got Leviathan and polydactyly
allows me to get an iPhone pose it's not
like when you have like no damage and
you fight champion Ragman right off the
bat that's just like just just take me
out like a Franz Ferdinand song sorry
like the Franz Ferdinand so I know they
have more songs okay I own self-titled
2004 frame the Franz Ferdinand darker
than Madden a you know lots of lots of
classics I know the second one as well
which I can't remember what it's called
but it have it had maybe maybe it was
called you can have it so much better I
can't remember there's definitely a song
on it that was the lead single I think
no the lead single was do you wanna okay
yeah look this is another thing we can
mod out of my brain although I'm worried
that I would Stepford Wives it a little
bit and lose what makes me unique or at
least eccentric uh what do we got down
here Cannes other eye that's not
particularly strong I'm going to
basically mainline my way to try to make
this diplopia a technique work here and
main line my way to the mom fight
specifically not good although a you
know we're gonna take a lot of damage
sure but it's not a daily will have to
do dailies at some point you might as
well get used to the idea that that
those days are approaching again however
we're not that incentivized to not take
damage here in fact like gonna cheese
through some of these rooms because
really like the whole the thrust of this
run being interesting is dependent to a
mild extent on making sure that we make
it the boss Russian it looks like we're
going to but on rooms with a a lot of
annoying enemies it's for the birds to
skip by it can we beat mom in under like
50 seconds I think the answer should be
absolutely unless you fight like a
really cheesy red mom then okay that
puts a foot up and then never puts it
back down happens from time to time but
we're looking good here yeah we're
looking extremely good here God is
behind looking darn good though
easy money we do want the Polaroid on
this one the deal with the devil's gonna
stay open but why don't we look you know
we we already fought Krampus we already
paid the toll there
forget those pills dude we got four
items I think we got a space bar item we
got two space bar items we got proptosis
Jacob's Ladder is like a great one-time
use item mega beam and then the D AIDS
the d8 is your Zane here we'll take
proptosis to proptosis doesn't do jack
apparently but that's fine let's head
down to the next floor we are stat it up
dude I almost don't want to roll because
our stats are so good but the purpose of
the d8 is having it is rolling even
though this run is like 20 out of 10
right now I am gonna roll now keep in
mind you're gonna go all the stats went
down that was garbage we won't know
until we get the bulb illuminated
whether or not this was a good choice or
a bad choice
cuz we lose a lot of stats right off the
bat from not having a full charge on our
space bar items so it's gonna take us
four rooms to figure out whether or not
it was a good call and once we're once
we're set once we got like 20 damage or
something
we'll just that just get our illuminated
bulb to persistently give us an all
stats up even this like if we traded in
damage for speed we're still killing it
here let's be honest so I think our rate
of fire did get worse and our damage
might have gotten mildly better this one
looks like okay our rate of fire
improved drastically our speed is
horrible and our damage is gonna be a
little bit less but with Jacob's Ladder
I think it's actually possible although
I don't want to say guaranteed or
probable but I think it's possible that
this could be kind of the chosen reroll
here basically like maybe more than
doubled our rate of fire oh why not do
more than doubled our rate of fire
crushed our speed in a bad way but left
us in a in a glorious position from a
DPS standpoint because it only took a
little bit of damage and it gave us an
absolute ton of stats so we're fire and
super quickly our speed is okay not
great but okay I don't want to lose this
rate of fire I think I'm gonna roll with
this for a little while I think we could
eventually stat up in like all
categories by using d8 I'm not sure
though I think it's every stat as a
champ an equal chance to go up or down
so if you roll enough you know you might
expect to beat the odds one set of you
know X number of plays everybody by the
way when they're gonna hear that and go
NL that's not how probability works stop
echoing what your stats prof told you
when you slightly misunderstood okay
that is house that's work sure every
role is an equal chance to you the odds
are the same rolled a roll but the more
you increase the sample size the more
you introduced variance into this
situation you know that's why in a lot
of scientific studies they call outliers
is because Playa is one of the reasons I
suppose is because you know that the
outliers are not actually representative
of what you would expect the mean
response to look like in a sane
so like if you bought a billion lottery
tickets your odds of winning the lottery
go up it's the same people go like you
know they're I don't know why this is
like this is the thing I'm most
passionate about hey ya know how do you
feel about politics the income
inequality and blah blah I don't like to
get into controversial subjects how do
you feel about a misinterpretation of
statistics it's extremely bad but people
will go like you know I I might say
something like well you know if you flip
a coin six times you're probably gonna
get a head's at some point people go
excuse me the number every time you flip
it you have the same odds as the first
time you flipped it yeah yeah you ain't
wrong but just why don't you go test it
for yourself go to random.org flip a
coin do it six times tell me how many
times you don't get ahead or like do it
six times times like a thousand tell me
how many times you don't get ahead you
know you lose 50 percent likelihood
every single time of the sample working
assuming it's an equally weighted coin
they people just commonly not everybody
and you might be saying who thinks this
NL I know people who think this we
almost should fight hush except our
resources like are not necessary to like
we don't have the requirements like
people I think they just misinterpret
probability a little bit is what I'm
trying to say if you flip a coin once
yes fifty-fifty no question if you flip
a coin six times what are the odds of
not getting any heads it's like 1 over 2
to the power of 6 you've got a 1 in 64
chance of never getting the heads you
don't have a 50-50 chance of never
getting a head when you put it in plain
text like that I think is obvious but
sometimes people they've ever
misinterpreted a little bit so we should
we have to speaking of which we are
we're misinterpreting our means of using
Duffy's head here we should use guppies
head at the end of a room instead of at
the start of a room so that we get the
maximum value from having illuminated
bulb here
by the way if you're saying nobody
thinks that congratulations you have
like very intelligent friends and also
you don't read YouTube comments it's
good stuff
we should stick with the illuminated
bulb I think quite obviously here it's
given us good stats we maybe should have
rolled the d8 a little bit more but you
know that train is sailed we also became
Guffey way so it's like using Guppies
head is not really particularly relevant
potentially but this has been a an 11
out of 10 run like a very very very good
run
then we've pretty much have no reason
whatsoever to complain about everything
went very well here oh you know leave
one spear a tarp I know this is another
statistical let me explain it to you and
then so many no ok see I'm just joking
that was that's just laziness on my part
alright so dream crush this dude you're
done we out this would actually be a 10
out of 4 run that's right it would be
250 percent if we could get a void
portal so dump on that thank you
good very good decent very good good
sorry Stuart it's a good item but
guppies head has a beat the Halos good
item rubber cement is - did you want to
get a weird mama let's get weird
this is a I'll call it like maybe the
most powerful and yet also fun run that
I have had since starting up the new
save file this is like we got so many of
the cool items that are also semi new at
least from you know my standpoint that
I'm I'm stoked we would steamroll void
and delirium specifically but make me
prove it Oh shucks we don't get to fight
the Delirium on this one we do get store
credit though which is a great trinket
for now though thanks for watching
because I've enjoyed the episode if you
take like the like button how's that a
great deal and of course subscribe you
want to see more in the future but for
now thanks for watching I will see you
next time